---
title: Apprenticeship
category: Experience
favicon:
---
Continuation to [[note 1]]

As I found myself running with Team 5 through the bustling streets of Cape Town's CBD, with a map in hand, trying to crack the next clue for the amazing race, I couldn't help but feel a sense of excitement and wonder. This was just one of the many activities that made up our orientation program, designed to help us get familiarised with the city and its transportation. And I must say, it was one of the best things that happened to us. Our cohort was divided into six groups, each competing to win the race and earn a free two-way cable car ticket to Table Mountain. From the flower market where we searched for the national flower of South Africa, the beautiful Protea, to running through the company garden to find Babalwa, every moment was filled with unforgettable experiences. While my team may have missed first place by a fraction of a second, the lessons we learned about teamwork and collaboration were invaluable. As we ran under the bright sun, our team looked out for each other, making sure we all reached the finish line together.

The following day marked the end of our orientation and the beginning of our apprenticeship. Our supervisors from TAL assigned us a budget to explore different transportation options to our work sites. We tried everything from public transport to mini-taxis, but unfortunately, our apprenticeship site was situated in a location where these options were either impossible or too expensive. That's when we discovered the convenience of Bolt Cabs, which quickly became our go-to mode of transportation. The same evening, TAL arranged a Braai for us at the Fresnay Sports Club. As we arrived, the aroma of the sizzling meat and vegetables on the grill wafted through the air, making our taste buds tingle with anticipation. The atmosphere was lively, and everyone was excited to meet new people and have a great time. I had the opportunity to meet the people from my apprenticeship and was able to have a chat with them over an amazing dinner. The food was delicious, and we all enjoyed every bite of it. The cherry on top was the stunning views of Table Mountain from the club. It was a perfect ending to a thrilling day, and we all went home with a sense of excitement and anticipation for what was to come.

Next morning, I enthusiastically embarked on my first day of work with Anna, my partner in crime for the next three months. Anna arrived at the red house by 9 am, which served as our designated meeting point to catch a cab. With the efficient Bolt Cabs at our disposal, we reached our office by 9:10. The route to our office was along a highway, but luckily it wasn't too far. As we entered the office, we received a warm welcome with open arms from everyone. It felt like a great start to our apprenticeship journey. We had the pleasure of meeting everyone in the office, and we took the time to introduce ourselves to the team. Among them was our supervisor and Cape Town bestie, Charly. She was incredibly friendly and made us feel right at home. Soon after, Charlie took us on an office tour. To my surprise, we discovered that the office had an amazing backyard. It was a green oasis with plenty of grassy space, an old swimming pool, and two swings. Though I never got used the swings during work hours, they added a unique charm to the workplace.

After the quick office tour, it was time for our very first meeting with Charlie and Monica, the head of our office. The meeting was filled with excitement and a sense of anticipation for the projects and tasks that lay ahead of us. After settling in, Anna and I had the privilege of engaging in a casual conversation with Charlie and Monica. They showed a keen interest in learning about our individual interests, skills, and also told about the process that led us to be selected as part of Mamelani Projects. It was a pleasant exchange, and we felt valued as members of the team. As we delved deeper into the heart of Mamelani, Charlie and Monica shared with us the organization's purpose, mission, and the profound impact it had on the lives of people in Cape Town. The stories of transformation and empowerment kindled a spark of passion within me. I felt a strong connection to their vision, knowing that through Mamelani, we had the opportunity to make a real difference in people's lives.

One of Mamelani's vital initiatives was the youth resilience programs, which aimed to assist teenagers in South Africa as they transitioned from alternate care to aftercare. It was heartening to witness the dedication with which Mamelani worked to provide support and guidance to these young individuals, helping them build a brighter future. Furthermore, the organization's commitment to improving public health resonated deeply with me. Mamelani organized health camps and tirelessly raised awareness about life-threatening health issues, such as diabetes and AIDS.

After gaining insight into the work ahead of us and immersing ourselves in the world of Mamelani, the most delightful surprise awaited us. We were informed that the office kitchen was generously stocked with an assortment of food, milk, and other provisions for the staff. This thoughtful gesture further exemplified the warm and welcoming atmosphere at our workplace. As the meeting concluded, we were entrusted with our first task - to delve into the pages of Mamelani's book titled "Our Stories." This captivating volume documented the inspiring tales of youth who had undergone the resilience program, highlighting their remarkable journeys. Additionally, we were asked to look at comprehensive year review of Mamelani, chronicling the impactful changes they had brought to the communities they served. To better comprehend the non-profit landscape in South Africa, we were also assigned a selection of articles for perusal.

  

Although one might expect the reading task to be boring, it surprisingly sparked our interest and left us eager to learn more about the incredible work Mamelani was undertaking. Little did we know that this was only the beginning of our transformative apprenticeship journey, brimming with excitement and profound experiences that I shall soon recount in the following segments.